Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all the young faces of
Ba
Vang Pagoda. Ba Vang Pagoda has three
clubs: the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
Youth Club, and the La Ho La Club. The
Youth Club should
rightfully be the lifeblood of these three clubs,
because we are young, aren't we?
We are still at the age of
exploration,
so our energy
should be the greatest, right? The
Golden Chrysanthemum Club mainly consists of those who
have experienced the storms of life, who have been battered and
bruised. That is, only those who have suffered
join the Golden Chrysanthemum Club.
If you are happy and prosperous, you would
n't join. Those who have become monks or nuns join the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club are all
people who have been hurt too much by life; they join the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club to heal their
wounds, to heal their
emotional and life wounds. That's what the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club is all about. And then there's the
Youth Club...  So,
we haven't been hurt by life yet. In the
Youth Club, we have to learn the
skill of not letting life hurt us,
right?
[Applause]
So today, I'm also
sharing with the Youth Club's leadership how to
learn not to let life
hurt us.
Now, let's all clasp our hands and pray to Buddha for
social protection. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni,
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Dear
all,
from what age are we considered
young? It's when we start having
independent thoughts and making independent decisions, that is, when we are
independent
from
our families, that is, when we
are fully responsible for our actions, right? That's when
we are called
young. Otherwise, if we are
under 18, for example,
whatever we do, we still have to
wait because we are not old enough to be fully
responsible for our actions before
the law, right?
Therefore, our youth begins
when we are
legally responsible for our actions,
and it is from that moment that
we begin to give and receive many things from life.
We may give
bad things and reap
painful consequences, or we may give
good things and reap
many successes and happiness. Is
n't that right? That's what youth is like.
[Applause]
If we give the
world a lot of suffering,
we will immediately be hurt by the world,
right? The world
consists of what is called the world
in Buddhism, sentient beings
who represent and govern this world,
and mainly humans are the masters of
this world. So, our relationships
include
friends, colleagues, and family.
These three relationships are the main ones, right?
Friends, colleagues, and family.
We only have these three relationships.
If we live in a
family, in a lineage, we are
not outsiders.  If we fail to preserve,
develop,
or contribute anything good to our family and
lineage, we will be
rejected by our own family and lineage; they will
not love us, they will not want to
help
us. They want to abandon us, right?
And when we, as
children of a family,
bring them shame, loss of honor,
economic damage, and
cause them suffering and the loss of all
hope in us, then
they will treat us with
displeasure, annoyance, and
pain. We will have to live in a family
without connection, without the
atmosphere of togetherness, without the
joy of seeing each other, right?
Here, let's remember when
we were children. Did we see
how happy our parents were to see us?
So happy!
If you
can see
those children living in
families, receiving the love of their parents when
they are young, then we feel the same way.
Being born
is a source of happiness for parents and the
family. When we are born, everyone is so
happy, so joyful.
They are happy from the moment we
utter our first cry. They celebrate when
we start to crawl, when we
learn to stand, when we learn to walk,
when we start school, and
when we have our birthdays.
That is, there is so much joy in the family.
But if we give
them things that cause them suffering, gradually
we will no longer have that joy, and neither will they, right? Isn't it true
that within our own families,
we are denied all joy,
and if we give those things to the world,
life will hurt us. We will
no longer feel happy with
our family, we will never feel
happiness within our family.
Isn't it true that we do
n't feel the
joy of being near or far from our family? But if we
give them good things,
will we receive them in return?
Being accepted doesn't mean I'm happy.
I'm
just telling you my personal story. I
have a habit of telling my personal stories
because I know them best. I
have something special about my story: my parents are
very happy for me. For example, I often
receive phone calls from my father, which
makes me very happy. He says I
've started a family! For
instance, if I set a date to come
home to visit, he'll call me almost every day from the day
I set it until the day I arrive.
For example, if I'm just traveling from here
to Hung Yen, my hometown, he'll call me every few
steps along the way, asking
where I am. He'll
call me every few steps along the way.
That means
my father is very excited and
happy to know I'm coming
home, and I'm very happy to be
welcomed. I'm the
joy of my parents.
And then there are some phone calls
I'll never forget, for
example...  For example, when she went on a business trip to the
South, her father would call her "Yen." "
Where are you?" she'd say. "I'm in the
South," he'd say. "You're all the way to the
South?" That's
just one sentence, and the laugh would continue. Even when she talked about something else, her father would still be in that same place, laughing heartily, "All the way to the South!" He'd just keep laughing, and it would be deeply ingrained in
her heart. She
felt her father's joy, and he felt
her joy. She gave
goodness back to her family, and they
gave her joy in return, a feeling of happiness and
joy. She was very happy.
Although her parents passed away a long time ago,
she didn't have the
concept of them being dead because the
sounds and emotions in her mind—
these were still echoing in her father's voice when he talked to her.
Therefore, she still had beautiful dreams about her parents.
So, if we give
goodness to our family and loved ones, will we also receive
goodness in return? Will we not be hurt?
No, I'm not hurt by my family and
relatives who have loved me. My family and
relatives only bring me
good things, happiness, and
joy. It's the same with friends; when I'm friends with
someone, I contribute
good things. But good things are done
wisely, not just
according to their wishes. When choosing friends, I
select them carefully, and
relationships are made wisely. So I
leave behind the best in the
friends I've been with. I leave behind the good in the people I've been friends with. I
don't equate myself with the bad, I
don't agree with the bad, I abandon the
bad, but I remain loyal to the
good.
A friend might have
many good and bad points, but
I don't associate with the bad,
I remain loyal to the
good. So, all the friends I've had,
even if they were
bad friends, have been good to me because I don't
equate them.
And here, like when you come to the
temple, I also feel the affection
of some friends who know me, and their feelings are
very good.  And she also
dedicates her good qualities to you all,
right? So she says that life
doesn't hurt
her because she doesn't hurt life.
We live in this world, in
this world there must be good and
bad. The world must have good
and bad. We choose to offer the good, so that if we
don't offer the
good, we will receive good in return. No
matter how bad this world is,
we will never be assimilated,
and we will still receive good in this
world, right? Therefore,
we young people must have such a
direction. To have
such a direction, we must have the
right mindset. With a
right mindset, we need
two aspects:
firstly, giving to life, what do we give?
Secondly, receiving in life,
what do we receive? Because in our whole life,
in our relationships, it's just giving and receiving.
Right, my friends? Who can
find that third relationship? It's just giving and receiving.
Just accept it. Whether in family,
friends, colleagues, or throughout
society, we only have two
relationships: giving and receiving.
So, we decide what to give
and what to receive.
If we decide to give wrongly and receive
wrongly, life will hurt
us. If we decide to give rightly and receive
rightly, we won't be
hurt by life, right?
Just now, you said that we will
hurt life
because the Buddha taught
that life is full of suffering.
We hurt it by hurting that suffering, by
attacking that suffering, by
killing that suffering, by eradicating that
suffering. Isn't that right? We kill it.
Therefore, there is a sutra where
the Buddha taught: Did the Buddha kill or not kill? Did the Buddha destroy or
not
destroy? What did the Buddha kill? He killed
ignorance. What did he destroy? He destroyed ignorance. He
killed what? He killed greed, hatred, and
delusion. Therefore, we
hurt, even
destroy, in this life—that is, lack of
understanding, lack of clarity, and
wrong orientations.  No, we must eliminate
the erroneous orientations, we
must eliminate the ignorance about
this life, we must eliminate it. If it
still exists, we must accept that
this life hurts us. Therefore, in this
relationship of giving and receiving,
we must be wise
and understanding. We are
here
because we are blessed; we have a
foundation to rely on. We know
what we should give and what we should receive. That
is the law of cause and
effect, because no one can escape the law of
cause and effect.
We ourselves enjoy everything
we create; if that is a blessing, we
must also bear all the suffering we
create—that is
karma. Therefore, we see that
we have a proactive role in
this life, not completely proactive, completely
independent, completely
responsible for our actions, which is appropriate
for our youth, isn't it?
We begin by taking responsibility for
our actions. We take
responsibility for what? For blessings and sins, for
our own happiness and suffering, in these two relationships.  The relationship between giving and
receiving is such that when we give, we give
within the law of cause and effect, with clear awareness and understanding. When we
receive, we also receive within the law of cause and effect, with clear
awareness and
understanding. This means we have direction, or perhaps we don't have direction yet, and that's something young people need to study so that we don't get hurt by life. Regarding our actions, you already know about our thoughts, words, and deeds. We must learn to understand that this thinking will give rise to
cause and effect.
Here, I'll briefly explain cause and effect.
Some of you who have studied this extensively
may understand it well, while others may
not. I'll give a brief explanation. You
can understand that the cause is the thought, the
effect is the result of that thought, and the result is the outcome after we
act on that thought. For example, if I
think I like someone, I
will create the cause and effect
to approach them.
In my thinking, that
's the cause, and from the point where I approach
them, there are countless
causes and effects. After I approach them, I...
When interaction begins, it starts to form
consequences. For example, if a girl sees her
friend's behavior and feels annoyed by it, starting from that
annoyance, she will think of ways to hurt her
friend by going to this person to
badmouth them. Doesn't that immediately create the
karmic connection we're trying to create? The
karmic connection is going to that person
to badmouth them, and after she creates
that connection, she will go to that person and
badmouth them. From that point,
further karmic connections will arise, leading to us
suffering the consequences. Because she badmouths
this person, that person will, based on
their understanding, either like or dislike the other person, and
will act differently from what
we are thinking. We think we go
to badmouth the other person to relieve our emotions,
but the other person will either like
this person, hate this person, or hate
us too. Isn't that right? Then they
will create
other karmic connections, and those connections will give rise to
many
different behaviors that we
don't know about. So, is that right?
This give-and-take relationship in our thinking
must already be a give-and-take relationship.
When we think, we give, we give
away. We
speak ill of others, and we must
receive back all the bad things we have
n't foreseen,
right? Therefore, all
our actions must be
based on the give-and-take relationship. For example, I
said this: that's the give-and-take relationship. And what
about the broader receive-and-take relationship? For example,
one person hates another, and that person comes to
me and speaks ill of me. At that moment, I am
receiving that person's opinion. And when
I receive that person's opinion, I
begin to give again.
Studying Buddhist teachings and developing wisdom
is precisely this: we think
sharply and very practically in the present moment,
not far from the present. So, if these two people
hate each other and speak ill of me,
what would I choose to do? I will share with
you that I would never agree with
speaking
ill of others. I would agree with turning a
serious matter into a positive one.  She makes conflict
disappear. That's how she gives, and she never receives danger in return. For example, if two friends are badmouthing each other, two friends are not good to each other, one friend is very bad to the other, then how does she help them reduce
the tension? Everyone makes mistakes. What can be let go of,
let go of. We also make
mistakes sometimes,
meaning that's the approach, and depending on the
story, we stick to that framework so that
we can speak in that way. We will get two
good things: firstly, the
friend who was badmouthing you
will see you as a
different person, they will trust you, they will
never think you are a bad person.
That's the immediate result,
right? And if 10 people around you do the same,
all 10 will think you
are a good person because you have
such good behavior, and it's sincere.
This sincerity stems from clear thinking
in the relationship between giving and receiving,
completely clear thinking in cause and effect,
right? Because what she wants
is the trust of everyone, the
goodness in her.  Everyone's hearts are filled with gratitude
because she has such a mindset, so
she must think about how to receive
that reward. She doesn't think in terms of
suffering from
something else, never letting life take
pity on her, never
making herself worse in the face of
bad things, never
identifying with
such bad things. This mindset must
stem from diligently studying Buddhist teachings,
contemplating and knowing how to care for
oneself because one receives what one receives.
We always live in
a world of giving and receiving, from
words and actions. We cannot
transcend this, so what we give and what we receive is ultimately our
decision. Whether
we know how to make wise decisions,
or in Buddhism, what is called wisdom and
foolishness, wisdom or foolishness, depends on the
amount of knowledge we possess and
how we
use it. If we lack knowledge,
we are forced to rely on our old, foolish knowledge.
Because in our context,
all two opposing actions are either right
or
wrong.  Neutral behavior is
n't just about right and wrong; there's no such thing as
neutrality. A decision to
handle a situation can be either right or wrong, and even then, there's still a
degree of error. There's still
right and wrong, standard and deviation—that's all there is to it.
Therefore, we must be people who make wise
and correct decisions.
Those who make wise and
correct decisions must be those who cultivate thoughtful,
intellectual activity. Goodness cannot come to
those who are frivolous and frivolous
thinkers. We must think critically, and those who
live wisely
must use their intellect more and their heart
less. We see
leaders using their intellect more and their hearts less.
We ourselves, from birth, have to go to school,
so intellect must guide
us. But sometimes we
forget; we think that knowledge is what we need to learn, while we
don't learn the knowledge of how to interact with society. If we don't learn that, we
fail, don't we?  A
very solid foundation is the law of cause and
effect, which allows us to
master the two opposing forces in life: giving and receiving,
leading us to all good things. This
is the responsibility of youth towards
their own lives; it's how young people apply this
to be responsible for their own lives and
not be hurt by life.
[Applause]
Dear Sir/
Madam, I'm applying this to our main topic,
which is the leadership of the
Youth Club. When we live in this
world, we must know how to think,
but to have a way of thinking, we
must have a place to practice.
Without a place to practice, life is so
hectic, we can never
use life as a training ground. We must
practice from a place where we completely give. Only then can
we truly practice. If
we give and receive, give and receive, give and receive, we do
n't practice.
We haven't developed the habit of doing that.
Therefore, in the Youth Club,
those of you who are in leadership positions should
practice giving.  Don't take, give
without receiving. This prevents us from
thinking in a one-sided way:
just giving, meaning giving is the cause, receiving is the
effect. This means we don't overthink
the issue;
when we receive, we know clearly
what we're receiving. We have
a rule for giving like this to develop the
right thinking habit. In their way,
we have to program it first. This is the
programming process. Once we've
programmed it, it can
think for itself anywhere. She has
very little contact with technology,
but she has a lot of contact with the mind,
so she can understand things.
For example, she's met people who
work on web development and
management programming. She didn't understand anything about that because it's
technology. After talking to them,
they said, "Look,
we have to program it up and systemize it first." That means
programming
its functions, and then we can
put everything else into use.  There are many other things involved;
perhaps programming is just a
system like this, but...  They
can have many similar functions,
and if it can do that, then it's very
simple for me to understand. It's just
like programming thinking. When we
have a good programming mindset,
then when all similar things happen, it will automatically think of a solution. It's
very simple, is
n't it? So
here, you have to practice
giving good things
as a habit. When we
respond, we are always ready to
give good things. You will never be
careless or unintentionally give
bad things because giving bad things
hurts us. So we have to program ourselves
to give good things so that when
we react naturally, we have
a reaction of giving good things.
Our responses are also very
quick and
accurate. Here, I will give you an example.
Sometimes you see
political schools, don't you? People have
dialogues. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or
something like that. Those dialogues
can involve talking, laughing, and...  They might eat a meal and then
leave, but they are extremely mindful of
their actions; not a single word
is allowed to be careless. If you're in
diplomacy or even business,
when you're in business, even
sitting at a table, you're
never allowed to savor the
taste of the food. Eating is just a means,
drinking is just a means. The
main thing is to exploit the situation with each sentence,
right? This is due to what? It's
programmed in the brain. People have a programmed
mindset. It's a programmed way of thinking.
Managers, all those people in
business, they have that programmed mindset. The food tastes
delicious, but don't think of it as
eating time. It's not eating time.
You can see a lot on their table,
but even after they finish eating, they
don't know what to eat because they've completely
put it aside for something else, right?
But young people, do you have
this? Very rarely do we eat;
we focus on eating, and all our
relationships and conversations are
disorganized, not knowing what giving and
receiving are. That's it.
Our weakness lies in our lack of
carefree ease, but
we must also be able to control the situation, right? We must be able to
control the
situation, and the person who always
controls the situation like that has feelings, right?
Very feelings, good feelings,
not without feelings, very
good and noble feelings. When we
give good things, it generates compassion, kindness,
and help, not
without feelings, very good feelings. Because
good feelings lead to good contributions. We
have good feelings, we want to form good feelings,
then we form a benevolent mindset,
oriented towards goodness, right? They
must have feelings, they must have good thoughts.
Here, I'll tell you
this, I accidentally saw a
clip like this, it's very interesting.
In a high-level meeting, I
don't remember what meeting it was, at that time,
Russian President Putin was standing next to General
Secretary Xi Jinping, like they were lining up for a
photo or something, and I saw our President Nguyen
Xuan Phuc.  He went in, but he walked
between the two of them, shook hands and greeted them.
His position should have been at the back,
not at the front. But he went
in between them, shook hands, smiled, and then
went that way to the back. He didn't go around to the back.
Normally, people would have lined up at the front, and if he were at the
back, he would have to
go around to the other side.
So, if he was at the back, he would have to
go from there and circle around to this side.
But he didn't choose that way.
President Putin was almost in the middle, and Secretary Xi
Jinping was standing next to him, meaning in the middle of the
line. He went straight in, shook hands with
both of them, and then went to the back, smiling brightly. Was that
accidental? No, it was accidental. It was
intelligence. Therefore, when you reach a
certain level,
you must have intelligence to have
such blessings.
Without intelligence, if you just say whatever comes to mind and
live according to your heart, you'll only end up doing
menial jobs,
working day and month after day.
To have blessings,
you must have...  Only with wisdom can one gain
blessings, and only with blessings can one
gain wisdom and vision. Isn't that right?
Even a small action should
inspire admiration. We should
learn from it, we
should praise it, we should cultivate a
benevolent heart, we should care for the
country. Isn't that right? That action isn't
spontaneous; it must have a
purpose. For example, this is just Ms. Tư's idea.
If Mr. Nguyễn Xuân Phúc
wants to meet President Putin at that meeting, or if
he wants to meet General Secretary Xi Jinping,
that's a first social interaction, a
first announcement, a
first connection to open up
subsequent actions
in such a joint event. Is
n't that
wonderful? So, if we don't
adopt a wise way of life, we'll
miss out. Isn't that right? If
we're not subtle, we'll
forever remain just children with old faces.
Isn't that right? If we
don't know, we'll just be
a child.  Children have the appearance of old people;
we never truly grow up, we live
superficially, isn't that right? Therefore,
we must place ourselves
in a class of mature, intellectually sophisticated individuals,
right?
Living intelligently, we become confident.
Confidence without confidence, knowing how to behave
appropriately in every situation—does that make
us feel comfortable with ourselves? If we feel
comfortable with ourselves, then
here I'm analyzing the case of Mr.
Nguyen Xuan Phuc.
He had to live in that position for
a period of time, completely giving. I'm
not talking about money; for a
leader, money
is just compensation. There are people who succeed
and
fail, but when you reach a certain level of
leadership, you have to care for the
majority below you, care for everyone—that's called
giving. Isn't that right? If you don't
have the strength to give, the strength to care for
everyone, you'll be
eliminated. For example, a business is the same; if you
don't care for everyone,
you'll fail, you'll be
eliminated. And when will we...  As long as we have the strength to
give, we will survive; if we don't have the strength to
give, we will fail. This
applies to
Buddhist teachings. Those who always think about giving will
not fail, while those who
exploit giving for their own benefit
will
fail. If we keep giving,
we will naturally receive in return; there's no need to
calculate what we receive, it will come naturally
because it's the law of cause and effect.
Here, I'll also mention
leaders to
make it easier for you to think about, because
you haven't
encountered many stories from Buddhist teachings yet. I'll just give an example.
Our President Ho Chi Minh was someone who always
thought about giving, right? It's
true, isn't it? President Ho Chi Minh was
someone who always thought about
giving. Because he thought about giving, he
gathered people who also thought about giving.
He didn't think about receiving. We
see how much he received in return. A lot,
not a lot. A person who
doesn't give throughout their life, even after death,
their family will have faded away after 49 days, and after
a hundred days or a few memorial services...  I forgot about
Uncle Ho, how many people remember him?
That's receiving, right?
It's not about receiving, it's about giving. If you
always expect to receive, you won't get
much in return. For example,
I don't worry about anyone else. I only worry
about myself. This is Ms. Tinh. A person who only
receives, I don't worry about anyone else. I
only worry about myself. So I work for
10 million a month. I work until the appointed time and then
go home. If I work an extra hour, they have to give
me extra money. I'll only
work if I live right, according to the contract,
right?
Immediately, I'll never get
promoted, right? You'll
only ever earn 10 million. When
people are busy and work overtime, they pay
you extra. You'll never
have the prestige to be given something
better.
This is very easy to understand,
but if you earn 10 million, even if
you're enthusiastic, even if you
work overtime, you
should still get promoted, unless
you demand something else in return, then you
shouldn't. Okay, overtime done.  I just
finished doing extra work. Speaking ill of others, that
's how I received the consequences of my actions – insults, curses, and slander.
How can I rise up
if I give and then receive something in return? It's
like, if I give and then my reputation
rises and I get promoted, I'll also receive the same reward:
that reputation.
I just finished working for a few hours, helping out at the Lõ family's
place. Isn't that like taking the reputation I used to insult and speak ill of others, and then receiving something in return? The way I receive it is just different. Do we need to think? No, we need to think. [Applause]
Let's go back to the issue of being a
youth club leader. If
we have the right mindset, we
know we must learn
Buddhist teachings. And we are
youth club leaders with the
goal of helping others
access Buddhist teachings to gain the right mindset.
That's how we think about giving.
Is it right to think about giving?
We must have the mindset of
giving, and we must always think...  That's how it is,
and we overcome all difficulties to
achieve our goal:
organizing for
everyone to access Buddhist teachings, so that
people can have more peace in
life, less suffering, and better thinking. When
they understand karma, they think better; they are
not insecure, but confident, right?
So, when we give, we are
guiding ourselves to give. When
we are struggling or lazy, we
only think about overcoming challenges; we don't
think
about what others should give us because we
have already received. We give right from the moment
we give; we have already thought about
receiving. That is, giving to others.
The right guidance is to connect with
Buddhist teachings so that people can have a better life,
right? They contribute
better things to their families and society. Is
n't that having a purpose? No, my purpose is
like that, and I just need to overcome myself.
So, in this thinking process,
do you always program a good mindset?
Right? A good
mindset overcomes to think good.
Without any negative thoughts,
we program
it that way. When you live in a
family,
you can be more inclined towards goodness and easily let
go.
Is it easier living in a family? That's what
we program here, but
we reap the benefits
elsewhere. When you give like that, and then
you work in an office
or a company,
you're constantly being scrutinized, every hour and minute, you
feel uncomfortable, right? It's not
uncomfortable, and that's what allows you to
benefit. Isn't that right? It's not that
we don't gain anything. We have
good programming, we handle
situations very well, we are always
inclined towards goodness, we contribute, we
don't get tired, we aren't
invaded by our negative thoughts,
and we handle situations
extremely flexibly and skillfully, right?
So what does this situation do to
you? You gather people
in all your work
because you only give. But
how else can you gather people?
Isn't it true that you know how to
program like that? How can you
gather people, understand
their feelings, predict their
thoughts, and support them, making
them come to your side? It's extremely simple, is
n't it? This programming brings
you good things, not necessarily great things, but
we have to program it. It doesn't come naturally.
We have to program
it. For example, if
you're a
manager somewhere, for instance, you get
a management position and you're
used to leading and
attracting people. Are you a
good manager? You have excellent skills, but if
you don't practice, how can you have them? You won't have them,
right?
This environment is for
you to practice. Out there, when you go
out and become a manager, if you don't know how to
practice, you'll make
mistakes from the start, you'll be hindered because your
mind isn't yet mature, your thinking is
n't yet mature, right? If you just keep going, you
won't
succeed. That's why here...  Why is the Buddha considered the
master of gods and
humans? He was extremely skilled in
giving and receiving, very insightful in
many lifetimes. He practiced karma and
understood this. You see,
working in leadership positions is beneficial;
it's an environment for you to
program yourself. We only fail when we ourselves
don't program ourselves to
give. So, in
any group or family,
you must know how to skillfully give in order to have
a
happy ending in your family.
You must have this programming in your relatives to
succeed, right? Just
giving good things allows us to
live among many bad people without
ever being assimilated; we will
stand out and be able to gather people together.
We must have training, we must have
programming. It takes time to
program, just like going to
university. It's training, it's learning,
it's experience. Skillful
behavior is entirely in the way you
think about giving.  You see, that's
why she gave the example of two
people arguing and badmouthing each other,
but you still give good things.
Because you're used to it, you have a habitual mindset, and you
never lose your composure. So
she said that even though she lives with all
bad people, she never loses her composure or assimilates
anyone's badness because
it's become a habit, a programmed habit, right?
We have to have that kind of programming.
So anyone in the
Youth Club's leadership team
must have that mindset. We come here to
train ourselves; it's an environment for
training our behavior and
maintaining the lesson of giving. We must maintain
that lesson until we
master it, my friends.
That's it. In Buddhism, it's called cultivating the
mind, you see? In Buddhism, it's called
cultivating the mind or cultivating a good
heart. It's the same thing, but to put it in the
language of youth, that language
will be easier for you to understand, right?
That language is easy to understand, very easy to understand. If we
want to manage personnel, we have to
manage the personnel of our own organization.
Otherwise, let it go, then both the girl and the boy will be lost.
Isn't that right? What kind of management is it when they get
married, love each other deeply for 3 years, then after only
32 years, the
girl leaves? What kind of management is that? What kind of human resource management is that?
Isn't it true that we don't
know how to
manage, so we suffer. We should know
what is appropriate to give and receive.
The Buddha taught that no matter
how great
the past sins or karma, if we know how to apply it in the present, it will all be eliminated. If we learn to behave wisely in the present, things will immediately change. Isn't that right? It's not controlled by the old, but because
we lack wisdom, we
act according to our habits,
and we suffer. Isn't that right?
In Buddhism, if we
use wisdom as our career, we will be
liberated. The monks
use wisdom to achieve liberation. We, as lay people,
use the wisdom
that the Buddha taught us, and we will
escape suffering and succeed, right?
[Applause]
That's what she told me.  Let me tell you,
this afternoon I met with a Buddhist woman.
She said that she had recently moved in with
her husband, who
would come home drunk and then
beat her. She had to hide in her room and
grab a knife. She said that if she had
n't hidden so many times, she would be dead
by now, buried under a pile of grass. She
also had
a son who owed her
billions of dong, and she had to pay him back
repeatedly, but he still wouldn't give up. Then
she started saying, "Why is
life so cruel? Can I even earn a living? I
have to support my
husband and children. If I can earn a
living, why wouldn't I just
live separately and give up what I earn?
That's not even thinking straight. It's so
strange. If
I just work,
someone else will come home and beat me up, and I'll just
live with them. I can't think straight.
I can earn a living, I have to live with them.
Being disabled doesn't mean you're dependent on others, so why should you have to
endure this? You ca
n't even think simply, you can't do a
simple task, you
only think about running away, only running away.
And then you say, "That time, the house had a solid wood door, and they
poured something on it, they set something on fire, but it didn't
burn down." Oh my god, you
only think about running away to avoid being beaten. You
don't think about getting rid of that person at all, you only think about running away. I
don't know what kind of thinking that is.
She shared a lot in
her video, she said that since she fell in love, she's been
very good at programming her thinking. So, in
our lives, we have to be wise,
right? Back then, she
recounted that story, and some of you may not have heard it before. When she was
growing up, there were
two young couples in her neighborhood who got married.
She wasn't in love then, because she was still young. Even in middle school, maybe in
eighth grade or something, they
started getting married. There were hardly any
days in the neighborhood when they didn't chase and fight
each other.  Around the neighborhood, but the next morning everything
was normal. In the evening, after work, they
argued a little,
chasing each other around the neighborhood, calling for their father, mother, and
neighbors for help. The next morning they were shouting at each other again before
going to work. It was strange, they fought, and the
stepmother cursed them with every
kind of insult imaginable. The
next morning they were laughing and going to work together. I don't
understand what kind of mistake that was. I saw that and I was
scared because back then, I didn't know about the path to becoming a monk. I only
knew that when I grew up, I had to
get married. I didn't know what I had. In my
time, I didn't have
anything to understand. Then they
cursed each other
so much that when they got angry, they would dig
up the graves of their ancestors. They dug up all the graves of their forefathers. Then they would
eat everything dirty in the world, not leaving out
any special delicacy. It was terrifying.
At that time, I thought I had to get
married, but getting married like
this was like dying, wasn't it? Even
now, when I grew up, that image is still imprinted in my mind.
They were fighting, it was
n't a normal thing. She was really
disgusted by that image. Then, when she fell
in love, she told
her boyfriend, "If I
marry you, I won't
cheat. I'm making it clear to you that I will never
cheat, no matter what.
If I do cheat, it will be you who
cheats first, not me.
And if I find out you cheat, I'll leave you immediately,
no explanation needed."
She had many commitments. The
second was that if anything happened, we would
resolve it verbally, no fighting,
because she was terrified of seeing people fight. "If they hit me, I'd
die, right?"
So she set a
second condition: "If you hit me even once,
we'll break up. No apologies, remember?"
No apologies, remember, no apologies accepted.
She decided for herself that there would be no apologies; if you hit me, you'd
leave. No apologies, who could endure the pain of a fight? "
I can't stand seeing a fight at night,
seeing it from the outside,
I'd be terrified, and I'd be able to hit myself."  If
he apologizes the first time, then the second time he'll hit her,
right? So, just hit him
once, and there will be a second time
if you let him apologize. So she
committed to hitting him only once, and no matter the reason, he's
not allowed to apologize, not allowed to explain,
and thirdly, he's not allowed to insult
her parents or siblings. She never insults them,
but if he insults
her family even once, she'll let it go,
no apology, no
excuses, no explanations.
She practiced
that: no apologies, no explanations, no
insults. As for the two of them, if they had any problems, they could argue freely, but as long as they did
n't insult her,
that was enough.
Life is very simple, isn't it? Oh, she just
thinks like this: we have two legs and two
arms, we can work and eat, right?
Eating a lot or a little is up to us, so why are we suffering so much? Is
n't it very simple? She
thinks it's very simple, so she has a
very simple mindset. And we live faithfully, we
live wholeheartedly, right? We work
hard, build our lives, and the
two of us get married to...  But to build a
happy marriage, she had one
more rule: after marriage, he had to be the one to
manage the money, otherwise she wouldn't marry him.
And she immediately agreed, right after they started
dating, that the following month
she would be allowed to hold the
money. She was allowed to hold the money, but when they
argued, she would take out all the
money and pay him back, not a single penny less. Love
is supposed to have arguments, and even when you're
angry, you threaten to leave. But every time
she threatened to leave, she would pull out the pile of money and pay him back,
not losing a single cent because she earned what
she earned, and she wouldn't lose
her honor for a few pennies.
Whatever he bought for her,
she would use, and whatever money he gave her,
she would keep it all, not a
single penny would be taken. And when
they got married, the
money was pooled together in a corner of the house; whoever
spent it could spend it however they wanted. She didn't manage it,
but of course, she
knew what she spent it on. Basically, he did
n't spend money on things that weren't
worth it, so she knew what he spent it on.
No need to ask, no need for anything,
but the amount of money coming in, I
know it's just for family expenses.
Of course, a child like that isn't exactly a
gentle person, right?
She's very considerate, extremely
considerate, especially when it comes to holidays and
celebrations at her husband's family's house.
In the countryside, it's common for things like,
for example,
how much each person contributes, she calculates
how much the whole ceremony and gives it all
away. When there's a need to share,
she calculates the approximate amount and gives
100,000 VND. No need to argue with anyone, no need to
share. Is
n't that knowing how to give? That's
also knowing how to give. If
we live and care like that, then
no one in the world is better than
us, so she's an excellent manager.
Right? Very
good manager. Here, let me tell you a little story.
Because of her management style, she's very
generous. She declared to her husband, "Brother..."  The
moment my husband walks through the door, he's already gone
out. I don't need to know, meaning I don't
manage him, I don't check if he's going out with other women, no, no, no, I never
ask, never monitor him,
not even at the right time.
But I know very well that if he goes out, I have to ask
where he's going, what time
he'll be back, and I respect that. Wherever he goes, he says he's going,
he'll be back around this time. That
means I live respectfully, without
controlling him, never
calling, never asking, never
managing him like that. I don't investigate
who he's with or
what he's doing, I don't need to think about it, I never ask, I
never get a headache over it.
So I don't own
anything that doesn't belong to me, I don't
manage it, it's tiring and I don't ask.
I know perfectly well, I just ask him
how he's doing, and if I ca
n't manage him, I let him go, it's
easier, right? That's what
I should do, to avoid getting
tired. Do you understand? I'm not
comfortable with anything, I don't have a headache.
Family doesn't need jealousy;
living with jealousy isn't about possessiveness, that's all.
So, is this a
give-and-take relationship that exists within the family? Is
it? My dedication and
faithfulness are not giving. I'll
announce that I'm faithful when we're
no longer together. If there's conflict,
I'll go find
someone else; otherwise, I won't do
that. So, it only comes from you, not
from me. I would
never do that. Don't worry about it. It
means we have to know
what we're giving. That's giving—
a very honest and faithful giving, something that's necessary
in a marriage, right?
Giving without constraints, because when
someone marries you, they don't feel
controlled, right? Your friends—you
have to know how to choose, how to behave,
that's all, it's very simple. Everyone
has habits and traits, but we
know how to adapt, right? We
live with what's good, and we adapt to what's
bad. That's how it
is.
We need to have the thinking skills to give and
receive without being a mass-market person. Isn't that
human resource management?
Human resource management, living within your own family, your
behavior is also human resource management, isn't it?
Everywhere you go, there's human resource management.
So, are you guys here human resource managers? Are you guys human resource
managers? Yes, that's
human resource management. So
we have to learn. This is an environment for
you to learn and practice, and if you achieve success, it
benefits us.
Don't think that we
're giving in vain. Why give for free?
Nothing in this world
becomes a habit without practice.
So, quick thinking and reaction
are habits we need
in this world of interaction, this
world of giving and receiving. We must have
intelligent behavior, right? So
we need to program it. That's
very good. It's not that it's not
good, it's just that you haven't seen
its benefits yet, so you can explain it.
Just a little chat, everyone, do
you understand this point? Don't let life
hurt you.
And for those of you living at home,
you can get to know each other when
we have faith in Buddhism to a certain extent. Then
we can be both
life partners and spiritual companions because we
share the same aspiration: to faithfully
uphold the precepts. As for karmic
forces, we will practice accordingly to
transform them, so that we can
become good people, which is my
wish. Those of you who have the aspiration to become monks or nuns,
we will do so. Those of you who
haven't become monks or nuns yet, you can stay at home. There
are methods for us to practice in each situation. Please
clasp your hands and
dedicate
this merit to the Buddha, so that
all disciples and
sentient beings may choose to attain Buddhahood.
[Music]